h1. pdf-builder

This is a Groovy PDF builder that uses the "iText library":http://itextpdf.com to generate PDF documents.

*Note:* As of the end of 2009, the iText 5.x code base switched to the "Affero General Public License":http://itextpdf.com/terms-of-use/index.php.
This license is likely to be unsuitable for many projects.
Thus, this pdf-builder project targets the iText 2.x code base, which uses the more liberal Mozilla Public License.
Note that the iText 5.x code base is source-incompatible with iText 2.x: package names have been changed from com.lowagie to com.itextpdf, classes have been moved/removed/changed.
Be sure to refer to the iText 2.x documentation when using pdf-builder.

The project is inspired by the "groovy-pdf project":http://code.google.com/p/groovy-pdf/, but contains all new code.

Currently the code is under development, and still in a very much alpha state.
However, we are already using it for some projects under development at a client.

There are some examples, including Groovy versions of many of the iText examples, in the examples/ directory.

We hope to follow up soon with:
  * Documentation
  * Samples
  * More features
  * More tests
  * Maven artifacts

Here's a Hello World from pdf-builder:
<pre>
import nz.co.skepticalhumorist.pdfbuilder.PDFBuilder

new PDFBuilder(new FileOutputStream("Hello.pdf")).document() {
  paragraph("Hello from iText.")
}
</pre>


h2. Running tests

(TBD: Move to another page.)

To run all of the tests, you need some prerequisites:
  * iText examples (for data and images)
  * Windows fonts

Get the iText examples from the SourceForge SVN repository, using a command like this:
<pre>
svn co  https://itext.svn.sourceforge.net/svnroot/itext/examples itext-examples
</pre>

If you are running Windows, you should have the necessary fonts.
Otherwise, you need to get these files and place them in a directory on your system:
  * arbli___.ttf
  * arialbd.ttf
  * arialbi.ttf
  * ariali.ttf
  * arial.ttf
  * comicbd.ttf
  * comic.ttf
  * msgothic.ttc

Finally, you need to configure these locations in ~/.gradle/gradle.properties, e.g.:
<pre>
pdfBuilderITextExamplesHome   = /home/user/pdf-builder/itext-examples
pdfBuilderWindowsFontLocation = /home/user/pdf-builder/windows-fonts
</pre>

